Advection with Euler integration:

1. Used gradient as operator --> Amplitude died (Bug, grad = 0)
2. Used upwind as operator --> Wave generated and stopped at left edge (Physical PDE Behaviour, explore)
3. Fixed gradient bug --> Amplitude exploded (Most likely integrator error accumulation)
4. Initialized wave at the center, different initial conditions --> Wave propagated smoothly but broke into ripples at the edges (Explore different boundary conditions, most likely due to integrator)

These are not ideal advection behaviours. Must explore numerical stability next.

Wave equation

1. Observed that the wave splits into two traveling in opposite directions. This is because of the general solution of the PDE.
2. Works, but explodes eventually. Must explore RK4.
3. Much more stable with RK4. Smooth reflection and interference.
4. Perfect wave behaviour.

NOTE - Still not stable over very long periods of time (t > 1000s)

Advection with RK4

1. Boundary reflection still unstable, wave breaking into ripples.
2. Used advection with upwind. Much more stable, but major loss in amplitude. 
3. Also, advection waves aren't supposed to reflect. The PDE forces unidirectional propagation. (Nod to point 2 in "Advection with Euler Integration)
4. Tried different coefficients and initial conditions (timestep played a huge role), and boundary interaction is now stable. Cleanly passes through. Still major loss in amplitude, though (more than double)
5. Advection continuously loses energy due to numerical approximation --> Amplitude loss.
6. Used gradient operator instead of upwind, energy loss is contained. Loss using upwind was due to a truncation error that acts like a dampener.
    Central gradient works, but must keep in mind physical causality.
7. Boundary conditions still fragile. Must explore np.pad
8. Fixed boundary conditions, advection works perfectly.

Diffusion

1. Works perfectly. Simulated a rod heated at one end. Temperature eventually reached uniformity.


SHALLOW WATER EQUATIONS

1. Implemeted a conservative form of the 1D shallow water equations.
2. Used RK4 but found it to be extremely unstable. Ditched method of lines and used direct integration using gradient.
3. Again found instability. Implemented Lax friedrichs solutions.
4. Much more stable, but fluid loses energy. This is due to lax friedrichs injecting artificial diffusion. Numerical, not physical consequence.
5. Experimented with various initial conditions such as dam break and collisions.
6. Next, must explore less diffusive finite difference solutions.

Advection

1. Noticed that wave escapes simulation completely, providing misleading energy graphs. Implemented periodic boundaries.
2. Energy loss is zero, but the pulse shape breaks down. Due to numerical approximations near the edges.
3. Tradeoff between total energy conservation and shape retainment based on the operator used.


Validation of Linear Advection

1. Implemented an analytical comparison.
2. Initial validation showed large error spikes at the boundaries.
3. This was due to a mismatch between the analytical and numerical domain. Numerical solution used periodic boundaries wheras analytical assumed an infinite domain.
4. After imposing periodicity on the analytical solution, the spiked dissapeared. 
5. Remaining error is a numerical artifact.

6. Interestingly, the upwind operator produced lower L2 and relative error than the central gradient operator.
7. Central gradient preserved energy perfectly, but introduced dispersive errors that distorted the shape, leading to higher L2 and relative error.
8. Upwind introduced numerical diffusion and lost energy but maintained a smooth pulse and hence had relatively lower error.
9. Conclusion: Gradient --> dispersive, Upwind --> Dissapative
